# CHEM 128A Learning Targets Evolution

## AY 24-25 Fall

1. (`CORE`) I can deduce bonding information (hybridization, formal charge, geometry, valence, charge polarization) embedded in chemical representations. I can draw Lewis structures compliant with the bond-line (zig-zag, skeletal) convention.
2. I can identify functional groups, condensed formulas, and common alkyl groups. I can convert between different drawing conventions as well as recognize implicit carbons and hydrogens in a structure.
3. (`CORE`) I can distinguish between localized and delocalized bonding systems. I can draw resonance forms to show electron delocalization and assess their relative contribution to the overall electronic character of the molecule.
4. (`CORE`) I can rationalize acidity and basicity trends of organic molecules according to the Brønsted–Lowry theory.
5. I can predict the position of acid-base equilibrium and choose a suitable reagent for an efficient proton transfer reaction.
6. I can use various projections of structures and conformational analysis to assess the relative energy of conformations of chain molecules and cyclohexane derivatives.
7. (`CORE`) I can use IUPAC nomenclature rules to convert structure to name and name to structure, including markers of absolute (R/S) and relative (*cis*/*trans*, *E*/*Z*, *syn*/*anti*) stereochemical information.
8. I can identify types of isomeric relationships between molecules. I can use drawings of structures and projections to demonstrate the stereoisomeric relationship between molecules.
9. (`CORE`) I can identify reaction mechanism patterns and draw curved arrows to illustrate bond-forming and bond-breaking steps. I can draw structures of transition states and reactive intermediates. I can identify nucleophilic and electrophilic centers in organic molecules.
10. I can categorize chemical transformations as substitution, addition, or elimination. I can determine the change in enthalpy using values of bond dissociation energy. I can use reaction-energy diagrams to communicate the kinetics and thermodynamics of chemical reactions.
11. (`CORE`) Given an incomplete chemical reaction scheme, I can provide missing reactants, products, or reagents & conditions for transformations involving alkenes.
12. I can identify the monomer and type of polymerization (cationic, anionic, or radical) needed to prepare a given polymer. I can draw a mechanism of formation of a polymer chain.
13. Given an incomplete chemical reaction scheme, I can provide missing reactants, products, or reagents & conditions for transformations involving alkynes
14. Given an incomplete chemical reaction scheme, I can provide missing reactants, products, or reagents & conditions for transformations involving alkyl halides and sulfonates.

## AY 22--23

1. I can read molecular representations and deduce bonding information (hybridization, formal charge, geometry, valence, polarization). I can draw chemical structures using bond--line (zig--zag) style.
2. I can identify functional groups and convert between different drawing conventions and styles. I can draw constitutional isomers given the atomic formula.
3. I can distinguish between localized and delocalized bonding. I can draw resonance structures to show electron delocalization and assess relative their relative contribution to the electronic character of the molecule.
4. I can use the Brønsted–Lowry theory to explain p*K*a trends of organic acids, correlations between structure and stability of organic bases, and behavior or organic compounds in proton transfer reactions.
5. I can use drawings of structures and projection and conformational analysis to assess relative energy of conformations of chain molecules and cyclohexane derivatives.
6. I can identify types of isomeric relationships between molecules, including stereoisomeric relationships. I can use drawings of structures and projections to demonstrate stereoisomeric relationships.
7. I can use IUPAC nomenclature rules to convert structure to name and name to structure including markers of absolute (R/S) and relative (cis/trans, E/Z, syn/anti) stereochemical information.
8. I can categorize chemical transformations as substitution, addition, or elimination. I can identify reaction steps, draw curved arrow mechanisms, and identify flaws in mechanisms.
9. I can analyze thermodynamics and kinetics of chemical reactions and use reaction--energy diagrams to communicate reaction profiles. I can draw structures of transition states and reactive intermediates.
10. I can solve synthesis problems involving alkyl halides and sulfonates: substitution and elimination reactions.
11. I can use conformational analysis and reaction mechanisms to explain selectivity and divergent reaction pathways of nucleophilic substitution and β-elimination reactions.
12. I can solve multi-step synthesis problems involving alkenes: elimination and addition reactions.
13. I can solve multi-step synthesis problems involving alkynes.
14. I can use conformational analysis and reaction mechanisms (ionic and radical-mediated) to explain selectivity and divergent reaction pathways of addition reactions of alkenes and alkynes.
15. I can solve multi-step synthesis problems involving alcohols, phenols, and diols.


## AY 21-22 Fall

1. I can read molecular representations and deduce bonding information (hybridization, formal charge, geometry, valence, polarization).
2. I can identify functional groups and convert between different drawing conventions.
3. I can distinguish between localized and delocalized bonding. I can draw resonance structures to show electron delocalization and assess relative their relative contribution to the electronic character of the molecule.
4. I can use the Brønsted–Lowry theory to explain pKa trends of organic acids and correlations between structure and thermodynamic stability of organic bases.
5. I can use conformational analysis to assess relative energy of conformations
6. I can identify chirality centers in molecules and can assign absolute configuration using Cahn–Ingold–Prelog system.
7. I can identify types of (stereo)isomeric relationships between molecules. I can use projections to demonstrate stereoisomeric relationships.
8. I can use IUPAC nomenclature rules to convert structure to name and name to structure.
9. I can categorize chemical transformations as substitution, addition, or elimination. I can identify reaction steps, draw curved arrow mechanisms, and identify flaws in mechanisms.
10. I can analyze thermodynamics and kinetics of chemical reactions and use reaction--energy diagrams to communicate reaction profiles.
11. I can solve synthetic problems involving alkyl halides and sulfonates: substitution and elimination reactions.
12. I can use conformational analysis to make predictions about selectivity of elimination reactions.
13. I can solve synthetic problems involving alkenes
14. I can use explain selectivity and divergent reaction pathways of nucleophilic substitution, β-elimination, and addition reactions.
15. I can solve synthetic problems involving alkynes
16. I can solve synthetic problems involving alcohols

## AY 19-20 Fall
