---
tags: chem128b
--- 

# Information on Learning Targets and Checkpoints, CHEM 128B Summer 2021

The purpose of this document is to give details on how Checkpoints are used to attain mastery on Learning Targets, what Checkpoint problems cover, how they are graded, what resources are approved for use on Checkpoints and how to use them, and let you know when Checkpoints will take place and what will be covered on each. *Maximum clarity* is the goal; if you have questions or if there's something that needs to be added to this document, please let me know. 

Sample Checkpoints can be found in the *Learning Targets* area on Canvas, where this document is located. 

## How Checkpoints work 

**Checkpoints** are do-at-home tests that are given roughly every 5-7 days, that provide you with opportunities to demonstrate skill on the Learning Targets in the course. One of your primary responsibilities in the course is to demonstrate as much skill as possible on as many Learning Targets as possible through doing "acceptable" work on Checkpoints. 

Your skill on Learning Targets is indicated in the gradebook by a **rating**. There are three ratings available: 

- **No Rating**. A blank entry, will appear in the gradebook if you have not yet attempted a Learning Target through a Checkpoint. Everyone begins the semester with "No Rating" on all 16 Learning Targets. 
- **Proficiency.** Once you complete **one** Checkpoint problem on a Learning Target that meets the standards for acceptable work, you will "level up" to *Proficiency*. 
- **Mastery.** Once you complete **a second** Checkpoint problem on a Learning Target that meets the standards for acceptable work, you will "level up" to *Mastery*. 

Every Checkpoint is cumulative, with new Learning Targets represented but also new versions of older ones. This will allow you to reattempt, on a limited basis, any Learning Target you do not "level up" on. 

## Example scenario
Alice starts the course, like everyone else, with "No Rating" on all her Learning Targets. Checkpoint 1 contains problems for Learning Targets 1 and 2; on this Checkpoint, Alice does acceptable quality work on the problem for LT1 but unfortunately her work on LT2 does not meet the grading standard. So following Checkpoint 1, her rating is *Proficient* on Learning Target 1 and *No Rating* on all the others. 

When Checkpoint 2 happens, it contains new versions of the problems for LTs 1 and 2 and a new problem for LT3. Alice works all 3 problems; she does acceptable work on all three. This levels her up to *Mastery* on Learning Target 1, and to *Proficiency* on Learning Targets 2 and 3; she still has *No Rating* on the rest since she has not attempted a problem on those yet. 

Alice can continue to attempt and re-attempt Learning Target problems throughout the semester to demonstrate evidence of skill. However, once she has reached *Mastery* level on a Learning Target, *she does not have to attempt this any more during the semester* since she's reached the highest possible rating; for example she does not need to attempt any more problems for Learning Target 1 following Checkpoint 2 since she reached *Mastery* level after that Checkpoint. 

## Overall grading criteria for Checkpoints 

Generally speaking, you are not being graded on your answers but on your explanations, processes, and reasoning. While correct answers are expected and required (except for simple errors), the evidence of your mastery of the Learning Targets does not come from the answers; it comes from your work that leads to the answer. So make every effort not only to provide right answers but also full, correct, clearly expressed solutions that back up your answers. Remember you are doing work here to convince the reader that you have mastered the ideas. Like in a courtroom, provide ample evidence, clearly expressed, that you have done so. 

Each* Checkpoint problem requires at least the following from a solution in order for that solution to be considered "acceptable": 

- There can be no instances of significant errors. A "significant" error is one that is directly related to the Learning Target itself and causes the solution to fail to provide conclusive evidence of mastery. Examples include (but are not limited to) the following: 
    - a significant conceptual error that demonstrates the need to understand the concept further;
    - an unclear explanation that demonstrates the need to understand the concept further; 
    - significant omissions including not doing a part of a multi-part problem (even if by accident); or leaving out an essential part of a solution; 
    - a highly disorganized presentation of a solultion that is messy and incoherent and is not easy for the reader to determine if the student has mastered the concept; and
    - a copy error that oversimplifies the problem.

- There can be no more than a single instance of a "simple" error. A "simple" error is an error that is not directly related to the Learning Target itself and doesn't get in the way of seeing that the student has mastered the concept. Examples of simple errors include: 
    - errors that are not central to the Learning Target and do not oversimplify the problem; and
    - copy errors that do not oversimplify the problem. 

Finally please note that: 

1. Two simple errors in the same problem, no matter what the type, results in unacceptable work. It is acceptable to make a simple error once, but not twice. 
2. Errors that are "simple" in one context may be significant in another. 

## Approved resources for Checkpoints 

Here are the approved resources you can access on all _Checkpoints_:

* the textbook;
* video or document posted on Canvas site for this courses (but not other courses);
* slides, class meeting notes, and other materials generated during class time; and
* class zoom recordings.

**Any resource NOT included on this list is to be considered off-limits and not approved for use on Checkpoints. Evidence of using unapproved resources will be considered academic dishonesty.** This includes: 

- solution websites such as Chegg;
- other students in the class, or past students from other CHEM 128 classes; and
- other textbooks or videos not included above.

All suspected instances of academic dishonesty will be thoroughly investigated, and whether a student has committed academic dishonesty is my determination to make based on the evidence. If I determine academic dishonesty has been committed, a report will be filed with the Dean of Students office, and the minimum penalty will be:

- "no pass" grade on a checkpoint and no possibility for retake;
- grade of "N" on AEP assignment and no possibility for revision;
- 7 point score deduction on final ACS exam.

<!-- ## Schedule for Checkpoints and Learning Targets -->